while the offensive in Gaza intensifies
Israeli soldiers have been raiding towns
and cities in the occupied West Bank
areas near Bethlehem and Janine have
been targeted once again a young man was
killed in the kalandia refugee camp in
Northern Jerusalem and his brother
arrested bulldozers have destroyed roads
there Pavements and water supply lines
in Janine Nita Ibrahim is live for us in
Bethlehem and Nita perhaps you can give
us a bit more detail on on what's been
going on these on goinging raids
pressure Relentless in the occupied West
Bank you know as many analysts would
suggest that Israel is not interested in
opening another front here in the
occupied West Bank people on the ground
are telling you that this intensive use
of uh of violence against Palestinians
during these raids that never seem to be
ending in different places across the
occupied West Bank is only making
tension Brew you know the the
25-year-old who has been killed killed
in the kalandia refugee camp who is by
the way the second to be killed in 24
hours in the same place in kalandia he
was behind the door that the Israelis
have detonated to enter inside and
arrest his brother talk about the
feelings of Injustice the feeling of
pain amongst those families who are
losing their loved ones all in all
across the occupied West Bank we're
talking about more than 40 Palestinians
who have been arrested as a result of
those raids they are intensifying but
also there's something that we've been
seeing happening sporadically now is
becoming more of like a policy detaining
family members in order to get people to
hand themselves over to the Israeli
forces so when they go to a house or to
a city and they don't find someone they
arrest their relatives and then
pressuring them to hand themselves in
this is the case that we're seeing
across the occupied West Bank and those
raids have also happened here where I am
in Bethlehem you know this city around
this time usually celebrates Christmas
usually is festive you know but this
year all Christmas celebrations have
been cancelled and I want to show you a
little bit from in front of the Lutheran
Church here in Bethlehem where the
pastor and some of the Christian
families have decided to uh Mark
Christmas in a different way instead of
having a Christmas tree that is
decorated with ornaments we're seeing
baby Jesus wrapped in a cof pal inan K
and is placed in a Manger under the
rubble we'll talk a little bit more
about that with Pastor mudis hak uh at
the Lutheran Church what's the idea
behind having Jesus under the rubble
instead of a Christmas
tree Christmas celebrations are
cancelled this year in Bethlehem for
obvious reasons it's impossible to
celebrate when there is a massacre a
genocide taking place uh in Gaz with our
people and so the idea was to send a
message to the world first but also to
ourselves a message to the world that
this is what Christmas looks like in
Palestine this is what Christmas looks
like in Bethlehem the birthplace of
Jesus Children pull being pulled from
under the rubble uh families being
displaced with their homes uh destroyed
uh and while the world is celebrating
Christmas at the birthplace of Jesus
this is what Christmas uh looks like
this is usually a season for
celebrations and also a season for Hope
is there hope
left we have hope in our faith uh we
have hope uh the Christmas story
actually gives us hope in the fact that
Jesus was born among the occupied this
is what happened 200 years ago uh and so
going back to this uh manger setting uh
it tells us that baby Jesus is in
solidarity with those who are suffering
with those who are uh oppressed so in
this Christmas uh we we find our only
source of Hope is is our faith uh in a
just God and in our solidarity uh with
one another and I hope that this message
gets to the world that we are united uh
in Palestine uh and sadly right now we
are united uh in our pain there's so
much detail going on here at building
this manger can you tell me a little bit
more about how you placed uh the manger
in all those details yeah the the image
basically came from uh what we see on
our screens children being pulled out of
the rubel and uh people coming and
searching under the rubble to find any
sign uh of Life any sign of hope these
images have broken us and we wanted uh
to bring them uh to the church and
usually uh a typical manger would have
uh baby Jesus in the middle and then the
holy family uh the Shepherds and the mag
surrounding him uh but this time around
we we thought of uh all these characters
in the baby uh in the gospel narrative
in the Christmas narrative uh being
around the house as if they are
searching for Jesus as if they're trying
to find him in the midst uh of uh of the
rubble with dust uh all of all over them
uh again we we want to bring the
Christmas story uh make it real in our
context today and I think if Jesus is to
be born today he would be born under the
rubble in Gaza with those who are
suffering and the mag and the Shepherds
would come and search for Jesus in the
midst of the rubble of of a destroyed
house as we see today thank you so much
Pastor Mund isak of the Lutheran Church
he was just telling me earlier that
while the celebrations of Christmas have
been cancelled the prayers will not stop
and they will keep praying and hoping
for
peace n Abram heartbreaking stuff thanks
for that